that unwelcome storm the brutal cold
snap across much of the Midwest and
sweeping south tonight 200 million
Americans will feel this and just take a
look at the wall this is the view
through this drivers windshield in
Michigan tonight whiteout conditions
across several states and there was a
harrowing moment in Minnesota you're
about to see an officer who pulled over
to help a driver when a tractor-trailer
comes barreling in just incredible there
on your screen luckily no one was
seriously injured but a real reminder of
the dangers of winter driving the Deep
Freeze will send temperatures plummeting
as much as 30 degrees below normal all
the way down to the Gulf ginger Zee is
standing by but we begin with ABC's Alex
Perez in the middle of the storm the
Midwest taking a beating tonight
Marquette Michigan buried under more
than two feet of snow and still falling
drivers are venturing out to find
covered and slick roads those powerful
snow storms heading east today in
Wisconsin some places saying more than a
foot here in Minnesota more than 580
crashes and 786 spinouts reported car
after car no match for this slippery
Hill in Duluth and exhausting 24 hours
for Minnesota snow plow truck drivers
tonight we rode with driver Tim nygren
who says this snowstorm was one of the
worst he seen so early in the season but
you had Bob once that looked good now
it's all covered again with plunging
temperatures now in the forecast the big
concern for drivers slick spots and
potential for black ice everybody
forgets how to drive in it and it's like
getting back to snow driving 101 you
know
most of Minnesota digging out today and
st. cloud they saw record-breaking 13.2
inches this front loader tipping from
the weight of all that snow and watch
this close call for officers in Rogers
Minnesota the responding to a jackknifed
semi when another semi barrels right
into them the road a sheet of ice
thankfully no serious injuries but at
least two deaths reported on Minnesota
roads and here in Minnesota they have
been stocking up on salts and spring
more than two hundred and seventy six
thousand tons already in place for
what's to come David all right here we
go Alex Perez leading us off thank you
in this monster storm not just
unleashing snow tonight two incredible
images to show you a dust storm also
known as a haboob in Colorado that
massive storm triggered by high winds
that rushed in behind the Arctic front
that's from the air and more trouble on
the ground in Colorado a wall of
tumbleweed kicked up by those winds as
well tonight so let's get right to chief
meteorologist ginger Zee who is tracking
this tonight ginger yeah tremendous
tumble and temperatures is the first
thing I have to show you not just a
litter a shin but just really smack and
everybody in the face there in the
plains Wichita had a record high on
Monday of 77 but watch what happens in
the next 36 hours more than 60 degree
temperature drop Oklahoma City tomorrow
22 degrees as we wake up the freeze
warnings the hard freeze warnings are in
place from New Mexico all the way to
parts of Louisiana and South Western
Arkansas and that freezing line where we
take the actual temperature to 32 makes
it close to Dallas early tomorrow
morning just goes right past it and into
the 20s in North Texas look how far that
purple extends into New England all
right pretty cool all the way down to
the Lone Star State all right Thank You
ginger